# Meeting 5 - January 6th, 2022

## Meeting recording

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle V2 Meeting #5

### Present (in order of first speaking)

**Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Kenric Nelson** (representing Community Advisors); **Tevo Saks** (representing Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Allison Fromm** (representing general ADA voters ); **Stephen Whitenstall** (representing Funded Proposers); **Harris Warren** (representing IOG); **Raymond Mata** (representing stakepool operators); **Matthias Sieber** (representing Cardano Foundation); **JP** (secretary).

### Speaker percentages

**Harris** (33%), **Kenric** (16%), **Stephen** (14%), **Nori** (10%), **Raymond** (9%), **Tevo** (7%), **Allison** (5%), **Matthias** (5%), **JP** (<1%)

### Abbreviations used / Glossary

API – Application Programming Interface (a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other)

ATH – After Townhall, breakout rooms after the regular Wednesday [TownHall meeting](https://bit.ly/3rCicSR)

CA – Community Advisor, a role open to anyone in Catalyst, to assess proposals in each funding round

CC – Catalyst Circle

CF – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org)

CTC, Catalyst Technical Council,  a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in [bicameral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism) governance alongside the Catalyst community.

CTO – Chief Technology Officer

DID – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

ETH – Eastern Townhall

Gimbalabs - [https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid](https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid)

IO – the overall organisation that comprises IOG and IOHK

IOG – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io)

NFT – [non-fungible token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible\_token)

QA-DAO –  [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io)

SPO – stakepool operator

VCA – Veteran Community Advisor, a role open to those who have been a CA in previous rounds, to assess the CAs’ reviews

Voltaire – the next phase on the [Cardano roadmap to decentralisation](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

## 1) Opening, agenda (0:00)

## 2) Circle members' work (6:33)

**Explanation (Nori, 6:33)**

The Stand-up is a go-round using the [Prioritised Problems GitHub board](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/projects/3), where each person says

* what they have worked on since last meeting
* what they will be working on next
* any blocks, or anything they need help with.

**Tevo (7:47)**

* Worked on journey-mapping (mapping people’s journeys into Catalyst); and on VCA-ing; also did some problem-sensing; and attended Gimbalabs Playground on [Gimball tokens](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vTJiYplLq5A\&feature=youtu.be) relating to [trust and participation ticket](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/37); but nothing else related to the GitHub tasks.
* Will add information to GitHub about relevant Fund 5 and 6 proposals that address the issues in the Toolmakers and Maintainers’ tickets, so they can be moved along the board. For example **** [Faster funding for Catalyst projects](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/52) ticket is at least partly addressed by  [Rapid Funding Mechanism](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/campaign-home/26236). Brief discussion of criteria for moving issues across the board.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark> further discussion of these criteria to be added to agenda for a future meeting.

* No blockers.

**Matthias (13:22)**

* Nothing on the Prioritised Problems board; dealing with issues around defamation.
* Will meet with Harris next week to take the defamation issue further.
* No blocks.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark> Harris and Matthias to meet next week to discuss defamation issues.



**Allison (14:12)**

* Has neglected the Prioritised Problem board a little, but has 2 issues to add to it from problem-sensing: more visible auditing and tracking of funded projects needed, and the lottery system for CA rewards needs review.
* Will return to Office Hours to track problems better; and  has recruited help with documenting and reporting on problems.
* No blockers, except for being ill with Covid.

**Stephen (15:37)**

* Working on audit issues – e.g. [Audit Circle proposal](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Audit-Circle/381354-48088); Auditability Challenge Team, [Community Governance Oversight](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Community-Governance-Oversight/383517-48088)
* On “[Almost non-existing collaborative layer to welcome newcomers](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/48)” has planned a problem-sensing session with Gimbalabs on Tues 11th Jan. The [Circle relationship with Catalyst proposals](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/61) ticket has had some discussion outside Circle meetings, but is now static.
* No blockers.

**Harris (18:01)**

* Continued planning of handover of decision-making to Circle and Technical Council; building out requirements for governance APIs; some details already in Git repositories, but more to be shared soon. Added [Catalyst Parameters pilot](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/63) ticket to the board. The “[avoid duplication](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/51)” ticket is now “in progress” with support of Challenge Teams helping to align proposals; and “[removing IOHK from every decision](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/47)” is now moved to “ready”.
* Still thinking about ways to track participation, possibly metadata attached to specific wallets; and will help on [Technical Council selection](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/59), maybe by running pilots.
* No blockers.

**Raymond (19:40)**

* Feeling stuck. SPOs are largely untrusting of IOG on governance; they think Catalyst is still very centralised; they have low trust in CA process; they feel participation in Catalyst is too time consuming.  (NB **26:23** Kenric has heard similar issues from CAs.)
* Need a system to visualise trust and participation.
* Blockers  - need help to find an existing tool to take this feedback from SPOs, and turn it into a channel or portal, to help visualise it and then translate it into action within Circle.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION POINT**</mark>: these to be added to the board as issues (not necessarily prioritised problems yet).

**27:11  Brief discussion on “Miscellaneous” challenges and other SPO-related challenges:**

* The [lack of a permanent undefined or miscellaneous challenge bucket](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/55) ticket was moved to “prototyping”, because a Misc. challenge now exists **(Nori, 27:11)**
* In the light of [continuity between the challenges](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/60) ticket, brief discussion of whether this challenge, and other SPO-related challenges, will continue in fund 8 (**Kenric, 28:13)**
* Why do challenges need to be voted each round**? (Raymond, 32:33)**
* That parameter could be changed – e.g. each member of Circle could select a challenge related to their constituency group that would be adopted without needing to be voted on. **(Nori 34:23**

**Kenric (35:10)**

* [the reputation system](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/57) has been a big issue –  lack of a reputation/ qualification system for CAs leaves the system open to gaming. To be discussed later on this agenda; need a short-term solution for Fund 8, and more long-term. And with [the reward system](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/53), negative community feedback the about current bonus system, which rewards CAs for reviewing proposals that end up getting approved; it’s felt that this prevents CAs being unbiased, and that CA bonuses should focus instead on review quality.
* Will be working on those two issues in the coming weeks. There are 2 documents where issues are being tracked: [a raw one](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZCgivRkkwEe4VHPLIa1D7nHhwnXB3\_9g\_vwwQN8NcSo/edit#heading=h.g5p6c42acklc) that people are adding to ad-hoc, and a [more formal one](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/120HylsMq-2oXeop7m8vBoaf7eb2D8viJazJs\_EPWU2I/edit#gid=0) that Daniel Ribar has compiled into numbered issues.
* No blockers – but still need to learn from IOG the process for modifying the system in Fund 8.
* **(Raymond, 39:33**) Received feedback on CA process from a number of SPOs, who object to CAs being able to select which proposals they review. For example this [Telegram conversation](https://t.me/ProjectCatalystChat/61122)

## **3. Consent Agenda (41:37)**

### **Bullying on Telegram and culture of listening (43:57)**

### **Review Community Moderation Guidelines from Ideascale FAQ (1:16:20)**

### **Catalyst Parameters Pilot (1:28:50)**

### **Catalyst Circle as a Funded Proposer (KPIs and status updates (1:54:10)**

### **Catalyst Advisors Reputation Requirements**

**I**t was decided **(1:46:38)** to postpone this item, as meeting was running short of time.

## **4. Feedback form and close (1:55:36)**

Meeting ends 1:56:12

## **Key words from this meeting**

The most common words used in this meeting were:

## **Appendix**

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting

coming soon

### Agenda for this meeting
