# Meeting 3 - December 9th, 2021

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/F9e3zfp9QzY" %}
Recording of CCv2 meeting 9th Dec 2021
{% endembed %}

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle V2 Meeting #3

### Present (in order of first speaking)

**Stephen Whitenstall** (representing Catalyst Coordinator, funded proposers); **Allison Fromm** (representing general ADA holders); **Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Matthias Sieber** (representing Cardano Foundation); **Tevo Saks** (representing Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Kenric Nelson** (representing Community Advisors); **Harris Warren** (representing IOG); **Raymond Mata** (representing Stake Pool Operators); **JP** (secretary).

### Speaker percentages

Nori (18%), Harris (17%), Kenric (13%), Allison (13%), Stephen (12%), Raymond (9%), Tevo (9%), Matthias (6%), JP (3%)

### Abbreviations used / Glossary

API – Application Programming Interface (a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other)

ATH – After Town Hall (breakout sessions that take place after the Town Hall on Wednesdays on Zoom)

CA – Community Advisor

CC – Catalyst Circle

CF – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org)

CTC – Catalyst Technical Council (a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in bicameral governance)

DIDs – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

IOG – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io)

Q\&A – question and answer session

QA-DAO –  [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io)

SDK – software development kit

SPO – stakepool operator

VCA – Veteran Community Advisor

Voltaire – [the final stage of the Cardano roadmap](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

## 1) Opening and agenda (0:00)

* Opening check-in 0:19
* Agenda 4:55

## 2) Circle members' work

The "CC Stand-Up" - each person says

* what they have worked on since last meeting
* what they will be working on next
* any blocks, or anything they need help with.

**Allison (9:14)**

* Proposals submission, particularly for a Voter Survey; creating a roadmap to how to create a legal entity; and working with Kenric on an [Atala PRISM](https://atalaprism.io/app) DIDs project for CAs
* Office Hours – more advance notice and more time zones; working on survey data; preparing for next CC election.
* Blocks: need email address for General ADA Voters role; website; other infrastructure. CC Admin team are fixing this; QA-DAO GitBook also functions as a CC landing page.

**Stephen (16:56)**

* Created list of proposals to be considered for CC sponsorship [https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Circle-Coordination/issues/1](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Circle-Coordination/issues/1); wrote and submitted governance-related proposals with [Dor Garbash](https://iohk.io/en/team/dor-garbash) and QA-DAO&#x20;

[https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Community-Governance-Oversight/383517-48088](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Community-Governance-Oversight/383517-48088) ,

&#x20;[https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Audit-Circle/381354-48088](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Audit-Circle/381354-48088)

[https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Coordinator-Hub/382324-48088](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Coordinator-Hub/382324-48088)

[https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Fund-8-Challenge-Team-Hub/383377-48088](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Fund-8-Challenge-Team-Hub/383377-48088)

* Gathering feedback from Funded Cohort [https://github.com/Catalyst-Coordinator/Feedback/issues](https://github.com/Catalyst-Coordinator/Feedback/issues)
* No blocks.

**Matthias (19:38)**

* Met with [Frederik Gregaard](https://cardanofoundation.org/en/news/cardano-foundation-appoints-frederik-gregaard-as-ceo-and-strengthens-its-executive-leadership/), CEO of Cardano Foundation; ATH with Ambassadors’ Guild; Fund 8 challenge submissions on Open-Source Developer Ecosystem and  general Developer Ecosystem; decided to set the challenge budget for the Open-Source version higher ($2M) than the general ($1M) to reflect the commitment to open-source.
* Working with Ambassadors’ Guild to redefine ambassadorship; continue dialogue with Catalyst community.
* No blocks.

**Tevo (22:58)**

* Berlin trip with several ex-CC members, lots of useful conversations. Proposal submissions; proposal workshops, and supporting others to complete their proposals.
* Continued proposal and CA education and support.
* Block – not sure how to leverage Admin team support when needed; and process is not clear  for progressing problem-sensing or “tool sensing” (identifying the tools that the Catalyst community uses).

**Kenric (27:17)**

* [Atala PRISM Pioneers](https://atalaprism.io/pioneers/) course, and developing DIDs for CAs with Allison; hosted a CAs’ Q\&A session at ATH
* Similar Q\&A for VCAs next week; CA feedback meeting in 2 or 3 weeks
* No blocks.

**Harris (30:20)**

* Working on [Voltaire roadmap](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/) and mechanisms; contributed to proposal writing on this but I could have done more; worked on governance APIs and governance SDK that will help teams both inside and outside IO to build tools e.g. for voting mechanisms
* Want to discuss the governance parameters pilot in this meeting; would have been better if this meeting had been before proposal deadline so CC could have agreed proposals before they went in; also want to share more on the data from feedback; and support the definition of Catalyst Technical Council
* No blocks.

**Raymond (35:18)**

* About a week behind due to family issues; many SPOs missed deadlines for proposals. Problem-sensing: some SPOs see the funding process as a popularity contest they cannot win. [Twitter Spaces](https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/spaces) have been effective to raise awareness of CC in the SPO community.
* Developing Office Hours, and holding Twitter Spaces regularly
* No blocks.

## 3) Consent Agenda (40:32)

### Postpone next CC meeting due to Christmas? (40:32)

* 41:42 Consensus is to keep it on 23rd Dec.

### **Criteria for which proposals should be Catalyst-sponsored (42:08)**

* **Allison (42:16)** How do we promote CC proposals effectively; and how do we ensure CC only promotes CC-related proposals and doesn’t become a platform for our individual interest? Process for deciding which proposals are “CC-sponsored”?
* **Tevo  (43:55)** Should we sponsor proposals that emerge from the community? I developed a chain vote application to enable us to vote on which proposals are CC-sponsored.
* **Nori (46:46)** Historically, proposals emerged from problem-sensing – this gave more visibility and legitimacy.
* **Stephen (47:47)** CC should only support CC-specific proposals, i.e. related to our infrastructure or emerging from problem-sensing.
* **Kenric (48:43)** Distinction between funding for operational expenses of CC, and funding that is specific to an initiative. How is CC currently funded?
* **Nori (49:34)**  CCv2 is funded via a Fund 6 proposal; but is currently running at a deficit, is costing more than that proposal's budget.
* **Kenric (51:07)** CC operational expenses are essential - should they be funded outside of the proposal process, the same way rewards to CAs and voters are?
* **Matthias (55:44)** No - \*Catalyst\* Circle should not be taken outside the \*Catalyst\* funding process. **(57:38)** CCv2 is too early to make CC’s existence set in stone.
* **Kenric (59:01)** If we put it to a vote to compensate CC members via an award, like CAs, then we should also put it to the vote whether there should be a Circle at all.
* **Allison (1:00:58)** CC members could be elected via IdeaScale; the Challenge Setting budget would be the budget to compensate CC members, and each “proposal” would be each candidate’s nomination.
* **Raymond (1:02:38)** For proposals currently in fund 7, we should meet separately to discuss them specifically.
* **Tevo (1:03:53)** We should use a voting system to cover proposals from CC and proposals from the community that improve the Catalyst system itself.
* **Harris (1:05:32)** We need CC, or some kind of group that represents the Catalyst community, to enable transfer of governance from IOG.
* **Nori (1:06:43)** We should discuss the Catalyst parameters; and as Raymond suggested, we should meet separately to discuss the fund 7 proposals and develop criteria for how we select which proposals should be “CC-sponsored”.
* **Harris (1:08:15)** We should return to a focus in these CC meetings on problem-sensing and the Trello board.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark> Allison, with support from Tevo, Raymond, Harris and Stephen, to set up meeting to discuss criteria for what should be a CC-sponsored proposal.

### **Should IOG, Cardano Foundation and Emurgo vote in Catalyst? (1:10:52)**

**Key points:**

* **Kenric (1:12:38)** Influence of large wallets is problematic
* **Stephen (1:13:13)** There’s a perception in the community that they \*do\* vote; is this justified?
* **Harris (1:13:49)** There is nothing official to prevent it – anyone can vote – but IOG are researching on protecting against influence of whales.
* **Kenric (1:16:52)** Voting power is not just about amount of ADA; it’s about how likely it is that your vote will be decisive in deciding “yes” or “no” on a particular proposal; and that increases quadratically. We could develop processes to avoid that centralisation, but we are not there yet.
* **Allison (1:18:32)** If Cardano and IOG do vote, there should be rigorous and transparent processes about it, same as for how they stake their ADA
* **Harris (1:20:21)** I don’t believe the Treasury is doing any type of voting. But eventually that decision should be made by the proposed bicameral governance structure.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark> <mark style="color:red;"></mark><mark style="color:red;"></mark> All CC members to formulate a position for a future discussion on this, with the aim of making recommendations as a Circle.

### **Discussion of Circle bicameral model (1:23:43)**

* **Allison (1:24:52)** Clarification on the proposed audit body – is it elected? **(1:29:10)** Is this a fleshing-out of the Governance Oversight body proposed by Harris last week; and what happens if it doesn’t get funded?
* **Stephen (1:25:43)**  In the [Community Governance Oversight proposal](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Community-Governance-Oversight/383517-48088) the proposed team is from the Catalyst “audit community” – those in Catalyst with relevant knowledge and skills. There is also a separate [Audit Circle proposal](https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Catalyst-Audit-Circle/381354-48088), for audit of the Funded Proposal process specifically. **(1:29:33)** If it doesn’t get funded then the sustainability of Catalyst audit is at risk.
* **Kenric (1:30:56)** I feel the proposed Technical Council should be appointed rather than elected – what should the appointment process be?
* **Harris (1:33:14)** We cannot transition decision-making away from IOG _**too**_ quickly, but we do want to do it quickly.
* **Raymond (1:36: 44)** I am open to the bicameral model, but we need to keep it as simple and elegant as possible.
* **Stephen (1:38:16)** We could use delegated voting \[i.e. _ADA-holders vote for a representative, and the representative selects the Technical Council_].

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM**</mark>** (1:39:50):** For clarity, CC members to add their name next to agenda items they add to the agenda in future.

### **Concerns about increased work for CC admin team (1:40:04)**

* **Stephen (1:40:12)** Concerns were raised at Admin team meeting on Friday that IOG had not discussed the Admin Team Scope Expansion proposal enough with the Admin team; workload expanding too fast; community money being used to support an IOG directed project; Admin team don;t want to become IOG employees.
* **JP (1:41:54)** We support the transition to community governance but we need time to develop our supporting structures. Also we are not being paid: it’s not sustainable. Also being heard - we wanted to raise concerns, but found the decision had already been made without us. We would like to be included.
* **Harris (1:44:32)** We can pace the changes. And we intend to find ways to compensate the Admin team.
* **Nori (1:46:32)** The Admin team have also set up a stakepool as a way to try and make things more sustainable; the ticker is [Admin](https://pooltool.io/pool/ac66c8efb8edba3991576235e421ef0524ab351a22598de520de7b16/epochs)
* **Kenric (1:47:51)** When we define new roles, we should be clear how they are funded.
* **Stephen (1:48:32)** There is a legacy of volunteerism in Catalyst, for good reasons, but we are moving into a new phase where that is not sustainable.
* **Nori (1:49:09)** Need to find mechanisms for communication and joint decision making, especially on subjects that affect us directly. **(1:49:33)** Also – a mix-up with time zones, we missed submission deadline for CC Admin Team’s Fund 7 proposal; so what was submitted is an earlier version that does not include budget for the additional CTC work. So it’s $10k short.
* **Stephen (1:51:23)** Possibly we could use a rapid funding mechanism to cover the shortfall.

### **GitHub tasks (1:52:52)**

* **Nori (1:51:59)** Admin team will resolve issues around websites, email accounts etc, probably next week.
* **Tevo (1:53:04)** Does everyone have access to the GitHub repository which has the copy of the Trello board?
* **Stephen (1:55:15)** GitHub board is set up to replace Trello. I agree with Harris earlier, that we should return to focusing on problem-sensing via this board in CC meetings. Put “Prioritise Problems” first on the agenda, and focus on sensing problems from the community.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark> Stephen to add CC members to GitHub board, and allocate issues to people.

## 4) Feedback and close

Meeting ends 2:01:17

## Key words from this meeting

The most common words used in this meeting were:

![](<../.gitbook/assets/frequentword mtg 3 9th dec.JPG>)

## Appendix

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/Meeting #3 Dec 9th 2021 QA-DAO Verbatim transcript, corrected.doc" %}

### Agenda for this meeting

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/Agenda, CCv2 Meeting #3 - Dec 9, 2021.rtf" %}
